Astrological beliefs are common across Mytharia, and there are some commonly agreed upon beliefs about the astrology of where and when people are born. Most of these beliefs don't necessarily have bearing to them based on actual scientific or magical evidence, but the superstitions and beliefs are still there with the arguments arising over whether they lie true or not.

## Calendrical Astrology
Astrology over ones birthday and the month they are born is common, as people are believed to have certain traits they may be associated with, or that the god who presides over that month may be looking over them. [[Troll]] especially have strong ties to their beliefs in astrology as they most often do become bound to their calendar in some way or another. As they are highly insectoid, they often resemble the insects tied to the month they are hatched in.

### Fieldrenary
Fieldrenary as the start of the year is a time of new beginnings. [[The Time Keeper]] is said to decree prophecies of destruction in what is to follow in the year to come. The morpho butterfly flaps its wings as consequences are laid out of what came before, and what is to come. Those born in this month are said to be determined individuals set to make change in the world around them, however they can also be seen as manipulators you can be wary of. [[The Time Keeper]] often gifts those born in her holy month with the greatest magic of all, the potential of chronomancy. A magic to be feared, and a magic to be awed.

### Kamâmel
With determination, Kamâmel is the time to step forward and protect those around you from what is to come. [[The Woman of Heart]] guides this month. Prophecies are not infallible, and sometimes you must trust the snake to protect you, and let the light of the lucina butterfly guide you. Those born in Kamâmel are often seen as selfless and marked with the possibility to become heroes. They are often seen as those who will do great good at the cost of their own happiness for the love of those around them. It's even said that when they lose their path, that their intentions will stay true and find it again.

### Mystrath
Mystrath is the month of knowledge that must be protected, and the month of the arcane. Magic can protect, and magic permeates this month and is seen as the best time to cast the biggest spells. [[The Lady of Arcana]] protects and lords over the magic of the world, and those born within it are said to be gifted with powerful sparks like the glow of fireflies, as well as being studious and knowledgeable like the owls that watch over this month. However, it is also often seen that Mystrath-born abuse this knowledge as the chaotic and powerful magic corrupts them to unleash it for their own ends.

### Dremfel
The leftover magic that permeated Mystrath fades into the dreams of Dremfel as the most visions and prophecies are seen in this holy month of [[The Daydreamer]]. Divination is at its most powerful as it's gently guided by the flight of luna moths. Those born within the month of Dremfel are seen as ambitious and destined to go through much change as their dreams guide them forward, so that they may command the same respect and admiration as a tiger.

### Jimuary
The power of dreams wane as Jimuary is the time of misfortune and plans gone awry. [[The Dear Leader]] is to be heeded in this month and it's often said that burning art in the name of [[The Dear Leader]] can ward off the misfortune said to occur in this month. Autonomy like a red panda is prided by [[The Dear Leader]] so that misfortune does not befall you while his death's head hawkmoths watch over. Those born within this month are seen as going one of two ways, they may either live long and fruitful lives off the exploits of others, or they may be destined to die young for their art and forgotten to history.

### Lucifrox
With the month of misfortune coming to a close, Lucifrox becomes the month of temptation. It is known to be marred with pain and suffering, however it's just as summer begins and so too do new opportunities. [[The False Sufferer]] watches over those born in this month, guiding them like rams, or in some case like sheep. Those born in Lucifrox are similar to those born in Dremfel, often set towards lofty goals, however those born in Lucifrox often die achieving theirs. Lucifrox-born are often martyrs and are seen as becoming leaders. But they live fast, and die young trying to get things done before they burn out and die like cicadas.


### Solas
Solas is the month of renewal. The days are at their longest and life begins again here when the land is at its most fertile. This is the month of Twilow, [[The Hearthmother]], the month to spend time with friends and family, to buzz with your community like bumblebees, to build and sow your future. Those born in Solas are said to become pillars of their community or heads of their families. This is also a month of fertility where healing can occur, where you can regenerate like a salamander what has been lost, and where the children of the future are conceived.

### Quarren
The month of Quarrels and Quarries. As the land basks in the renewal of Solas, nature is renewed and so too are rivalries and game. Quarren is seen as the month to settle scores, to hunt those who've wronged you, to seek glory in the hunt of monsters or to renew your coffers of food. Your time to act is now. Quarren-born are said to be often gifted with natural instinct to find things and people, and that they are often highly perceptive. Worshippers of [[The Shadowhunter]] say that to be born in his holy month of Quarren is a gift that they might stalk the shadows, strike like a scorpion, then gather what is needed like a squirrel.

### Owlen
A month of creation. Taking the spoils of what you have gathered and fashioning them into something new. Owlen is seen as the month to take the time and craft, to create art, whether you're working with a brush, in a smith, or in a kitchen. Owlen-born are said to be gifted artists and crafters, smiled upon by Tyrus, [[The Ether Crafter]] himself. Born with the adaptability and courage of the moose, as well as the craving for sweets and liquor of the ambrosia beetle.

### Rumbleth
Rumbleth is named for the god of famine and chaos, [[The Muffin Lord]]. It's seen as a month of strife where insecurity and misfortune could strike at any time, so you must persevere through chaos and grasp what you can. Be free like a cat, and stay tough like a rhinoceros beetle. Those born during Rumbleth are said to be destined to be tough and hardy, and to be independent so they can stand on their own, and find their own path during the chaos that follows their lives.

### Primus
Primus follows uncertainly from Rumbleth and is seen as the month to take your fate into your own hands. To take the risks that make your future and to roll the dice of your life in the light of day. [[The Master of Luck]] may guide your fate as you take gamble what it may become. Those born in this month are said to be the luckiest as [[The Master of Luck]] takes a special interest in where their fates may lead. Some however also say that Lunas is the holy month of the god Lune, but that is highly debated between followers of [[The Master of Luck]] and [[The Golden Phoenix]]. The luck of the sparrow guides those under [[The Master of Luck]]'s interest, and their holy crickets place bets on where the dice will fall.

### Oktober
The power of gods wanes as the height of winter comes close. Oktober is a month of what lurks in darkness, a month of the occult and a month of the forbidden. [[The Curate of The Occult]] watches over this month as their wolves, their bats, and their spiders watch all that occurs. They encourage laws to be broken and let the occult and the supernatural run unbound. Oktober is seen as a month of high risk and high reward when dealing with magic you're unfamiliar with, it could have disastrous consequences, or lead to unbound power. Oktober-born are seen as those who push the boundaries of what is possible, destined for glory or destruction, power or annihilation. Occult magic rings especially powerful as wolves howl at the full moon in this month, and bats fly from unseen crypts. Power wants to be used, and spiders whisper in the ears to lead those born in this month towards it.

### Lunas
The year comes to its close, the power of gods wanes before the new year begins, and it is said that [[The Golden Phoenix]] leaves his post guarding the gates of resurrection so he may guide the souls of the dead to their final resting places. Lunas is a time of mourning, and a time of remembering. What has been lost to the ashes of time, can be reborn in new forms like a phoenix. Change is inevitable, so like dragonflies you must allow yourself to transform and to hope for the future. Those born in Lunas are seen as those full of hope, and those who can adapt to the future, and those who are destined to go through many changes and transformations in their life.